# ES6 (ES2015)

## Goals
- Become familiar with a subset of ES6
- Learn where to find more about ES6
- Introduce object spread, a popular feature not yet part of the standard

## Environment
We'll be using the [ES6 Katas](http://es6katas.org/) for some of the exercises. If an environment isn't specified, use the Chrome web console.

## Exercises:

### Exercise 1. Declaring variables with `const` and `let`
- Fix the broken tests in the [ES6 Katas](http://tddbin.com/#?kata=es6/language/block-scoping/let) section on `let`.
- Fix the broken tests in the [section on const](http://tddbin.com/#?kata=es6/language/block-scoping/const)

### Exercise 2. Template Strings

Convert the following to ES6 code using template strings:

```
console.log("I live in", town);
console.log("My name is " + name + ". I am " + age + " years old");
```

### Exercise 3. Arrow Functions

- Create an arrow function that takes `name` and `age` and prints the sentence from exercise 2.
- Create an arrow function that takes the following object and returns an object with all of the keys capitalized.
  ```
  {
    name: 'Matt',
    age: 30,
    town: 'Burlington',
  }
  ```
- Use an arrow function to multiply every number in the following array by 10:
  ```
  [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
  ```
- Use ES5 methods to fix the below constructor (every time we enter `p.age` we should see a new age (age should increment by 1 every second). HINT: what does `this` evaluate to outside of the contructor?
  ```
  function Person() {
    this.age = 0;

    setInterval(function growUp() {
      this.age++;
    }, 1000);
  }

  var p = new Person();
  ```
- Use an arrow function to fix the constructor.

### Exercise 4. Default Parameters

- Complete the [default parameters kata](http://tddbin.com/#?kata=es6/language/default-parameters/basics)

### Exercise 5. Destructuring

In a single statement, do the following:

- Assign `city` and `state` to the first and second item in the following array `['Burlington', 'Vermont']`
- Alias `city` as `town` in the above example
- Provide a default value for state so that the following array also gets assigned a state: `['Richmond']`
- Assign `city` and `state` to the values of the keys of the same name in the following object:
  ```
  {
    city: 'Burlington',
    state: 'Vermont',
    country: 'United States',
    planet: 'Earth',
  }
  ```
- Alias `city` as `town` in the above example
- Assign `name` and `firstChildsName` to the respective values from the following object:
  ```
  {
    name: 'Bob',
    age: 45,
    children: [
      {
        name: 'Sue',
        age: 12,
      }, {
        name: 'Bobby Jr.',
        age: 8,
      }
    ]
  }
  ```
- Modify the above example to assign `No Children` to `firstChildsName` when passed an object with no children:
  ```
  {
    name: 'Matt',
    age: 30,
    children[],
  }
  ```

### Exercise 6. Array spread

Fix the tests in the [array spread kata](http://tddbin.com/#?kata=es6/language/spread/with-arrays)

### Exercise 7. Object.assign and Object spread

  - Use Object.assign to overwrite the below object with your own info:

  ```
  const person = {
      firstName: 'Matt',
      lastName: 'Parrilla',
      city: 'Burlington',
      state: 'Vermont',
  }
  ```
  - Use Object.assign to create a new object that overrides the object's values but leaves the original object intact.
  - Use object spread to create the new object (you can use the [Babel REPL](https://babeljs.io/repl/#?babili=false&evaluate=true&lineWrap=false&presets=es2015%2Ces2016%2Ces2017%2Cstage-2&targets=&browsers=&builtIns=false&debug=false&experimental=true&loose=false&spec=false&code_lz=Q) to use object spread since it hasn't landed in Chrome yet)

### Extra Credit. Transpile your ES6+ to ES5

Use babel to transpile your use of object spread into ES5.

## More ES6

ES6 was a huge change and we didn't cover all of it. The great news is, there are a lot of wonderful resources out there. Check out [Ben Glassman's BTVJS talk](http://benglass.github.io/es6-the-future-is-now/#/) for a great starting point and overview of ES6 features including some not covered above.

As usual, the [MDN docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript) are great and should be a go-to resource for both ES6 specifically and javascript generally.

